Hello, and welcome to yet
another worked exercise for
Python for Informatics,
Exploring Information.
I'm Charles Severance.
I am your tour guide to this
particular worked example.
This material is creative
example attribution.
This is part of my www.pythonlearn.com
website that helps you to
learn Python sorta from the very
beginning with the videos and
other materials to help you
go along with the book.
Of course the book is
Creative Commons Attributions, so
pretty much everything here is free for
you to use and adapt as you see fit.
So, we're taking sort of a working
example from the Tuples chapter and
the task that we're given is find
the ten most common words in a file.
And we will do that.
So, if we take a look at the basic overall
structure, we're going to read a file.
We're going to make a dictionary,
and empty dictionary, and
we're going read the file line by line.
We're going to split each line,
then we're going to loop through the line
using the dictionary pattern from
the dictionaries chapter using get,
so that we can both access and initialize.
New words that we haven't seen,
at the same time.
And then we need to sort, right, but
we need to sort by the value
instead of the key.
So we're going to make a list, and then
we're going to loop through the results
of the dictionary, and
we're going to make a new tuple.
But instead of being key-value,
which is what you get from items,
we're going to do value-key.
And then we'll sort that in reverse order,
and
then we'll simply print the first ten
elements of that sorted in reverse order.
And because we're constructing
carefully this new tuple
value key in the right order.
Value will be what's sorted on first and
then in cases where value matches,
it will sort on key.
Whereas, if we just took items
which is key value tuples,
then it would sort on the key.
And that's quite easy.
So, that's the basic idea.
So, let's go ahead and get started.
So I'm going to grab some of this and
save myself a little bit of time.
And paste that in.
I'm gonna use actually romeo-short,
because I don't want to mess with it.
Romeo has punctuation in it,
so I'm gonna go and
I'll call this under
tuples I'm gonna call this
guy topten.py and
see if it's in my tuples folder,
yep, just always sanity checking.
So let's go ahead to PythonLearn and
grab that Romeo short file
So I want to grab Romeo short.
If I look at Romeo short conveniently has,
or
just Romeo conveniently
has the punctuation moved,
and it's small, so we can do debugging.
Romeo full is a little harder and we cover
that in the book in some more detail,
to get rid of punctuation and stuff.
Not too bad, but
we won't talk about it here.
So I'm gonna grab Romeo.txt and
I'll save this to my
tuples folder as Romeo.txt.
And I should be done with that now,
and I'm done with that, so
if I take a look at tuples again, I've got
romeo.txt and this file topten.py, and
it's not romeo, it's romeo.txt,
and I'm just gonna split.
I hope by now you can read a text file and
split it into words, and
count those words in a dictionary.
So, I'm just gonna print
out the dictionary,
the counts dictionary that we got at
the end, and let's see how that works.
So, I'll go into my desktop,
and this is under tuples.
And so there's romeo.txt and topten.py so
let's go ahead and run topten.py.
And so there we go.
We have just sort of roared through,
broke it into words, broke it into lines.
We have a nice convenient
little thing here.
Now, you know what?
I'm gonna do one thing
that's not in the example.
The fact that these are uppercase,
I don't know if it's gonna cause
a problem or not but I wanna,
this bothers me, and so I'm gonna
force all the words to be lowercase.
And so I'm gonna call,
I'm gonna make a thing.
Word = word.lower.
Think it's lower?
We'll find out fast enough.
So I'm just gonna grab
a lowercase version of word and
make it be wrd, and that's why
I'm gonna put into my dictionary.
So let me run this again,
see if I got it right.
Yeah.
So now we see things
like Who is lower case?
I don't think it changed
any of the numbers.
It may have.
But, I think we shouldn't
treat upper case or
we should make this case insensitive so
we'll map everything to lower case.
So I just did that by
mapping it to lower and then
using wrd instead of
word after I made a copy.
So here we go.
So then what I'm gonna do
is I have my counts and
I'm gonna print the results of the items.
So that gives us a list instead of just
showing it, it gives us a list of tuples.
So there's a tuple,
it's a two-item tuple, tuple.
Tuple and its key value pairs.
Okay, this is useful now, in particular
because we can construct a for
loop that goes through for
kie, val.
Key and Value.
Key val equals, I'm sorry, in count.items.
I get all confused trying to create
really non-pneumonic variables.
So we've got key and val and
it's two iteration variables.
And The way
it works is these will iterate
through each tuple, tuple, tuple,
and then key will be the first
thing in a tuple, which is the key,
and the value will be the second
thing in the tuple, key val, key val.
And so, kie will bounce through these
at the same time as vaal is gonna bounce
through the corresponding values.
So that's quite nice.
So just, I always love sanity checks, so
I'm gonna print out kie and
vaal, just print them out.
Yeah, somethings wrong.
Key, val, end, oh, counts.
So, if I, so, here we go.
Trace back line 11,
the name count is not defined.
I was so
quick I didn't even read what it told me.
So, look at line 11,
though I'm on line 11 and I forgot my s.
So, it's pretty much,
once you get used to this it's pretty
much tell me what it wants to do.
So now I'm going through my tuples, here's
my tuples, and now I'm going through
the tuples one at a time, just dumping
them out in a loop and away we go.
Now, the whole the problem is
is we want to make a new tuple.
Okay, and I'm going to call this newtup,
and I'm going to create a tuple, and I can
do this by just putting these two things
in parenthesis, except that I
want val first and key second.
Okay?
So, I want val first and key second.
Now I'm going to print out newtup.
Now you'll see that as I loop
through each of the key value pairs,
I'm just making a new tuple where they're
reversed, where the value is first and
the key is second, right?
So value, key, value, key, value, key.
And, now I'm gonna stick this in a list.
I'm gonna call my list flipped and
I'm gonna say give me an empty list.
So I mean I'm starting an empty
list called flipped and
I am going to tell flipped
to append to itself, so I'm extending
this list each time through the loop.
Take that newtup that I just made, so
I've got newtup, and I'll take my print
statement out because that'll be obvious.
So I'm gonna append newtup to
the end of my flipped list and
then I'll print at the end
of this print flipped.
Okay, so I make a tuple and instead of
printing it I just append it to this list
and then I print the whole
list our afterwards.
Okay, so this is a little messy but
here is the first list.
It's got key value.
And here is the second list.
It's the exact same list as before.
Except its value key.
Now, it's exact same list.
We didn't take anything out,
we didn't add anything,
we didn't sum anything,
we didn't do anything.
So then what is it that we're
going to do with this list.
Well, we can use the totally, well,
let's just, we can use sorted but
we're not gonna do that.
I'm gonna do this.
Now let's say, I wanna take that
flip list and I wanna sort it, sort.
And then print flipped.
Just sort it.
[SOUND] Now the key to sorting,
the key of awesomeness of sorting,
is that sorting is done
by repeated comparison.
And it's comparing this
tuple to this tuple.
But the rules of tuple comparison,
is it first checks the first pair, and
then it checks the second pair.
It only checks the second pair
if the first pair doesn't match.
So three one doesn't match and so
it sorts it based on the three and
the one without even looking.
But then when there is two threes
that match it actually does check
the second two words.
So three and will sort the and and
the the will decide where the 3 and
the 3 the tuples end up sorting,
if that makes any sense.
So let's just print this out.
Actually, let's print,
print flipped, not clipped.
We could make a clipped one, too, later.
And I'm actually gonna
get rid of this print.
So it's gonna print flipped before and
after.
So watch this.
So here's flipped before,
it's been sorted in whatever order it was
in the dictionary in the first place.
And now here's flipped.
In the final order and
you see that it's in a sort of
reverse order where 3 and,
is and not are here at the end.
The 1s are in alphabetical order within
the 1s because tuples check, oops,
don't do that, don't do that.
That was nasty, bah that was really nasty.
Because I was copying and pasting.
So within all the 1s, it actually sorted
based on the alphabetic sort of the second
parameter, or the second item in the
tuple, whereas the 2s all sorted later.
So this actually isn't
quite what I wanted.
So I'm going to say reverse equals true,
because I actually want to sort it so
the big numbers are at the front.
So let's run that little bit.
So check that, right.
So now I've got my same sort, it's got
the unsorted, no it's got the sorted,
but the big numbers are at the beginning.
You'll notice it's in sort of reverse
alphabetical order because the big
words are at the beginning
among the threes, but whatever.
We're close enough for government work.
So now I wanna print out the top ten.
Don't, I did that again.
I want to print out the top ten.
I'll just do the top five.
So, I could do something simple.
We'll get rid of this,
we trust that it's now properly sorted.
I could say.
Print this list up to but
not including five by using list slicing.
So there we go.
There's the top five.
But that looks kind of ugly.
Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't.
So I'm gonna write a super cool for
loop, but again simple right?
Just for me to check it I could say you
know, print the first five of flipped.
This little list slicing
is a great way for
using a lot of data to kinda keep
your data from being totally insane.
Okay?
So I'm gonna write a for loop.
For key in value,
in flipped.
And now, I'm going to say only
go through the first five.
So, this loop will only run for
the first five.
Just like this only prints the first five,
this is gonna iterate only
through the first five.
And key and value will go through the keys
and the values of these first five.
Three the, key value.
Three is.
And now I'm just gonna print a sweet,
cool message out.
And, I'm just printing completely,
saying partially mnemonic things.
So, I print out my top five keys and
values, so let's take a look at that,
let's go ahead and run that baby winner,
3 is the, 3 is, 3 and.
So we saw five of these things.
Five of them, and
we're seeing the key and the value.
They would probably be more
easily read if I just did that.
3 the, 3 is,
those are the top five
words in my little program.
So let's take a look at this and
review, right?
We open file, we make an empty dictionary,
we do our standard file loop.
Splitting each line.
New lines are kind of
chomped up in the split so
we don't have to worry too much about it.
We loop through the words.
We change it to make it go lower case for
each word.
We use the get pattern to both
initialize new words to one and
add one to existing words by
using this awesome get-ness.
Now we want to flip,
we wanna flip the order in each tuple.
We wanna make the tuples from key values
tuples which we get from items to
value key tuples.
We append each of those tuples to a list.
Then with the tuples that have the val and
the key in them.
I can't write with this very well.
We sort them in reverse order, but
the vowel is gonna be the most
important thing you can sort it on because
it's the left most thing in the tuple.
And then we simply print
out the last five,
top five of this tuples after the sort.
And so that pretty simple, print out the
top five words in this particular file.
Okay, simple enough.
Thanks a lot, see you on the net.